## Pack list

### Critical

- [x] wallet
- [x] credit card
- [x] id
- [x] passport
- pill case

## Tech

- [x] iPad
- [x] Notebook and pen
- [x] multi-charger
  - [x] USB-C cable
  - [x] Thunderbolt cable
- [x] Airpods
- [x] Camera
- [x] Travel tripod
- [x] Batteries

## Accessories

- [x] sunglasses

### Fun

- card game(s)
-

### Clothes

- [ ] suit
  - [ ] shirt
  - [ ] dress shoes
  - [ ] watch
  - [ ] socks
- [ ]

## Project

Thinking that spring is the earliest I'll be available.

### calculate total comp

| Category            | Ammount |
| ------------------- | ------- |
| Base                | 176,750 |
| Wellness stipend    | 200     |
| Co-working          | 1300    |
| Continued education | 2000    |

Benefits:
Medical, dental, etc: 100% (me and kids) %50 kids
Vacation: flexible (i take 6-8 weeks)

**Customer Zero**

write Vision

Nadir Dabit

## Sales pitch for what I do

I am customer zero.

I am one of the unluckiest mother fuckers you'll ever meet.
If it's going to go wrong, it's going to go wrong for me.

The difference between me and a customer is that that I (mostly) know how to back myself out of a problem (technically). And when I do, I make content about it.

I partner with companies that like to work outside in — develop features from customer experience in. I work with people who aren't embarrassed about their loose edges. And realize that it's better we find it out, be honest, and fix it than a customer find the same problem, find no helpful data on it, and move on to the next service option. Companies that say "oh man, yeah, we're shit at that and it's not really on the near term horizon."

It's bold and it's not for everyone.n

---

first thing, we're building process. — self-scaling.
what partnerships do w ecare about that we don't have documentation on?
what do we have documentation on that we should start supplementing?
what is the lowest hanging fruit for to unlock new markets.

showing people how do build what you automate?
discord workshop.
