## Schedule

| Time  | Task       |
| ----- | ---------- |
| 07:00 | Wake       |
| 07:30 | Power Hour |

## Feelings
- I feel under appreciated at work.
  - My concern about the misdirection of a Chromatic-driven Storybook is not taken seriously.
  - I am uncomfortable with the idea of meetings as an evaluative metric. I've been down this road before.
- I feel und pressure.
  - Nellie wants me to take on the job at Netflix. I feel like it's further away from what I want but I'm also afraid that she may be right that it could be best for our family.

## > 5 min tasks

- [ ] Message guys about days I'll be there
- [ ] Buy train ticket
- [ ] Send money to Aaron for room

## Chromatic

- [ ] Create thumbnail for video
- [ ] Review annual fedeback

### Key resultsh
Kinds:
- input
- output
- outcome
If I accomplish the key results, have we met our objective?
- "committed"
- "aspirational"
- "learning"
Pair *quantity* KRs with *quality* KRs to balance
Reference:
- https://www.whatmatters.com/series_entries/s3-3-types-of-okrs

### Review Q&A

At a high level, I don't agree with this is a motivation problem.
Storybook does not have product market fit with the market we are investing energy into (developers).

The video projects that we have selected were deliberately designed and chosen to support Storybook features and circumvent integration shortcomings. But Storybook has not become any meaningfully more prepared to handle fullstack component driven development.

I find it belittling that my involvement has been limited to "taste" and not "vision." And my "frustration" should not be surprising

> It seems you like the educational aspect of the work. Are you interested in the subject matter you're teaching folks?

Yes. But I feel like we're misleading people.

Our job has been to extend the addressable market of Storybook from Design Systems (in React) to component developers. The thesis has been that developers simply need to understand our product better. But I no longer believe that to be the case. We don't have product market fit in that domain. And if we're not willing to pivot, we won't gain it.

> What do you think is the most constructive path for getting this product strategy in front of others? (everyone really cares about the future of the company)

TODO

> Is there another area you think you could have more impact?

The issue, as i see it, is that we're in a decline of relevance and I don't feel like anybody else sees it.
Vercel could eat Storybook and Chromatic's lunch with a weekend and Vercelian release (hype).

> Where can we support you?

I feel like I'm crying wolf. Like what I see isn't that big a concern. And that my relevance to the company is just a matter of taste and not vision.

> In your dream job, where do you think you can have the most impact?

Customer 0. Educating while learning and evaluating ecosystem from a customer perspective.

> In the past, you worked on rich media & video as a solo practitioner. No other person had this expertise to pair you with. I understood this to align with what you personally expressed interest in and it helped us deliver a more interactive learning experience for users. Win win.  
> But this also meant you had the least overlap with what other teammates were working on. This quarter, we've seen that the more collaboration we have with each other (in DX) and with other teams, the more impactful we are. My aim is to update the team dynamic to be more collaborative and less siloed.
> I asked some follow up questions in the summaries above. Can you give me a sense for what you're thinking when we meet in person?

As we've discussed in past 1:1s, I feel the oppositie. My excitement for our team was in the distribution of topics and skills that we could accell at.

It may be possible that I'm just not a good fit for this team any anymore.
