---
layout: ../layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro
---

## Latest

### long

> chantastic (Michael Chan) is a software engineer and community leader with a passion for education and personal growth.
> As the host of React Podcast, he has gained and shared insights from prolific open source developers around the world.
> His engaging and informative style has helped aspiring web developers learn fast and stand out in their careers.
> He's now building the lunchdev Discord community and developing his craft as a creator on the @chantastic and @storybookjs YouTube channels.

### short — focus on Chromatic role

> chantastic (Michael Chan) is a software engineer and community leader with a passion for education. As the host of React Podcast, he has shared insights from open source luminaries and engineer-creators. His curious and engaging style has helped aspiring engineers learn React. He’s now helping teams build high quality UIs with Storybook and Chromatic.

_(generated by chatGPT, 2022-12-08)_

> Michael Chan, also known as chantastic, is a software developer and community leader with a passion for education and personal growth. He is the host of React Podcast where he interviews leaders and shares his insights on the latest developments in the world of frontend web development. Michael is known for his engaging and informative style, and his work has helped many aspiring developers learn the skills they need to succeed in their careers. in addition to his work as a podcaster and developer, Michael is also an active particpant in the online tech community, where he shares knowledge and experience with others.

## 2022

> Michael Chan loves the web. He's the host of React Podcast. And he's building Lunch Dev, the friendliest coding community for creative, curious, and compassionate web developers.
