---
title: "Day 10: setState is a food truck"
date: "2017-12-10T12:00:00.000Z"
---

<div class="measure">

When you set down with set state, you might think state is set immediately.

It isn't.

```js
this.setState({ count: 1 });
console.log(this.state.count); // <= Probably not what you expected
```

## There's a leak!
`setState` has a naming problem.

You're right to think that `setState` sets state immediately.
It's in the name.  
But only because it beats a more descriptive alternative like `enqueueStateTransition`

For a technical read of what's going on, read the [setState doc](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#setstate).

We're gonna talk about hotdogs.

## A fast-food mental model
Food trucks provide a great mental model for `setState`. 
Here are some attributes they share:

#### Asynchronous
Food trucks act **asynchronously**—a big word for _"I move on while they make food."_

I order.  
I pay.  
I step back and read twitter.  
Other people order and pay.  
5-10 minutes later someone hands me food.

#### Queued
Orders are **queued** but not a [first-in, first-out queue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)).  
Food trucks need to be fast so they **batch** and **prioritize**.

#### Prioritized
You like hot fries? Me too.  
So when that fryer timer fires, fry orders get **prioritized**.

_(say that 5 times fast)_

#### Batched
While I imagine a chef decisively considering exactly how much Tabouli to garnish my "Lambda Lambda Lambda" with, it's not how food trucks work.

Scott wipes his sweaty brow, looks ahead, see 5 orders of _Lambda Lambda Lambda_, and they get **batched** for quick processing.

## What does this have to do with anything?
`setState` is a food truck.

Orders get **queued**.  
Work gets **batched** and **prioritized** for speed.  
And it all happens **asynchronously**.  

On the next render, you can pick-up your piping hot _Lambda Lambda Lambda and fries_.

## Tinker with it

Use the workspace below and play around with the state-setting illustration.

</div>

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/53k015q03x" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>
