---
title: "Day 16: Mind the lifecycle gap"
date: "2017-12-16T12:00:00.000Z"
---

<div class="measure">

Today we'll talk about things that **don't** happen!

## First, a new component

I'd like you to write a new component.

You'll [define this component](/2017/5/) [with some state](/2017/7/) and [event handlers](/2017/6/) for [updating that state](/2017/9/). Here are the instructions:

<style>
.short-list ul li {
  margin-bottom: 0;
}
</style>

<div class="short-list">

* Name it `PokemonPager`
* Set the initial state to have an `id` of `1`
* Render `state.id` in an `h2` component
* Renders two `button` components:
  * Clicking **"Previous"** decrements `id`
  * Clicking **"Next"** increments `id`

</div>

[Create a new sandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/new) for your component. Try not to look ahead.

<span style="font-size: 2em">⚛️ 💪</span>

## World's Worst Pokemon Pager

You've made a `PokemonPager` but it's a bad one.
That's my fault.

I forgot that it needs to render a `Pokemon`.  
Let's fix that!

```jsx
class PokemonPager extends React.Component {
  state = { id: 1 }

  render() {
    <div>
      <h2>{this.state.id}</h2>
      <Pokemon id={this.state.id} />
      ...
```
<br />

Now we see a big number `1` above Bulbasaur's name and abilities.

What happens when we click the buttons?

## Where's Ivysaur?!?

Our number gets incremented but Bulbasaur remains the same.

The components are updating—we see that in the number—but `Pokemon` isn't changing.

<span style="font-size: 2em">🤔</span>

## This is where I leave you

Here's the problem:

The `Pokemon` component only fetches a Pokemon when it gets `mounted`.  
It's only `mounted` once. After that, it's gets `updated`.

We need to fetch the next Pokemon in one of the [updating lifecycle methods](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#updating).

Read the docs on [updating lifecycle methods](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#updating). Find and use one of the methods to fetch a Pokemon every time the component receives a prop `id`.

## Tinker with it

Use the workspace below and explore updating lifecycle methods.

Make an attempt and I'll show you my recommendation tomorrow.

_Read sections above carefully; they subtly suggest the right method. Don't forget that most lifecycle methods take arguments._

</div>

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/5xlq7yjxyl" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>