## Exercise 2: Hypothetical topics

### Brief

> Put together a brief outline of two (2) topics you would hypothetically want to pursue for educational content under the Syntax brand.
>
> Each topic should have a 1-3 sentence description, a few bullet points explaining who the video is for, what value the audience will get, why you think it’s a good candidate topic, etc.
>
> The goal is for us to get a sense of what you’re interested in, and gauge your ability to ideate and create a plan.

### Topic 1: Drizzle ORM

Drizzle is the TS-minimimalist's ORM.  
If you want the safety of a TypeScript ORM, and don't mind getting your hands dirty with SQL, Drizzle is for you.

#### Title options

| Volume     | Description                                       | Vibe        |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| 🌶️ Spicy   | **Is Drizzle raining on your ORM??**              | Urgency     |
| 🍚 Mild    | **FINALLY, type-safe SQL!**                       | Relief      |
| 🍚 Mild    | **Why Drizzle is my new famorite TypeScript ORM** | Enthusiasm  |
| 🥱 Literal | **Drizzle ORM: A tutorial on type-safe SQL**      | Informative |

Audience
: Intermediate+ full-stack developers who love TypeScript.

**Value/Viewer outcome:**

- Experience fresh simplicity of Drizzle's minimalist design.
- Witness type-safe SQL (and autocomplete) in action.
- Learn the term _"data frameworks"_ as Drizzle's self-defined differentiator from "historical" ORMs.
- _Bonus_: Secure increasingly pendantic takes to fuel reddit rants — the dream of all senier-striving developers.\_

**Take it further**  
If this did well in short form, I'd pitch a longer form video on the topic.

- _Drizzle ORM: A Crash Course in Type-Safe SQL_
- _Drizzle or Rain? What every ORM may get wrong…_
- _TypeScript ORM Battle: Drizzle vs Prisma_

**My take**
I think Drizzle is great. I love libraries libraries that hold transparency as a design contstraint. Learn Drizzle, get better at SQL. I love it and just feel like this is a fun conversation to take part in.

**Inspiration**

> ORM stands for object relational mapping, and developers tend to call Django-like or Spring-like tools an ORM. We trully believe it’s a misconception based on legacy nomenclature and we call them data frameworks.
>
> With data frameworks you have to build projects around them and not with them.
>
> Drizzle lets you build your project the way you want, without interfering with your project or structure.
>
> Using Drizzle you can define & manage database schemas in TypeScript, access your data in a SQL-like or relational way, and take advantage of opt in tools to push your developer experience through the roof 🤯

— _[Headleas ORM?](https://orm.drizzle.team/docs/overview#headless-orm) doc_

### Topic 2: Overpaying for Domains

This is a little riff on the [5 Sick Domain Registrars short](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/pQLBAlHzIGc), with a plash of urgency and personal failing.

#### Title options

| Volume   | Description                                          | Vibe        |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| 🌶️ Spicy | **Inflation is coming for your Domain Names**        | Urgency     |
| 🌶️ Spicy | **Half-price domain names on this registrar…**       | Urgency     |
| 🍚 Mild  | **How to avoid paing more for domain names in 2024** | Informative |
| 🍚 Mild  | **HOW MUCH was that Domain Name‽**                   | Indignance  |

Audience
: Web developers zest for the perfect TLD, and distain for inflation.

Value/Viewer outcome:

- Learn that many TLDs are increasing prices this year.
- Discover Cloudflare's zero-markup domain offering.
- Ward off inflating costs in 2024.
- Have a good laugh about how many domain names I own and do nothing with.

**My take**

Being a "domain name collector" is something I love about the web developer persona. You can poke at it and nobody feels harmed — just known. I see this as a playful celebration of our unique brand of nerd.

**Take it further**
If this did well inshort form, I'd pitch a segment on asking famous developers what their most expensive and most ridiculous recurring domain purchases are.

1. _What's in a (domain) name?_
1. _You paid HOW MUCH for that domain?_

In researching this, I came across the _domain name generator_ category of products. Making a humorous video from this listicle could be fun :)
